Replace CodeSandbox with Deno Deploy due to Devbox deletion (#366)
upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store: README.md

-->

## Deploy on CodeSandbox
## Deploy on Deno Deploy

> 1. Log in or register on [CodeSandbox - Sign in](https://codesandbox.io/signin)

Reviewer: did we lose the "register" / "sign up" step? (not sure what word Deno Deploy ues)

Author: I would like to make it as simple as possible and students should use the "Continue with GitHub" button. Clarified the step in this commit [5b30ca3](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/pull/366/commits/5b30ca34ae3ea19ba5ee4b9fffb03699c1ed9c4d)

<img width="1453" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-14 at 09 44 52" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d4b9243a-b3b4-4011-bd90-53b3d04f4d59" />

Reviewer: does that appear when you're logged in already?

if not, then you should keep a separate "sign in" step

Author: No, it doesn't appear when you already logged in, and you are directly at the "Create new project" page. Added a new step that goes directly to the signin, and this opens the Github Signup
<img width="1464" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-14 at 16 50 30" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f1467e23-adfe-4628-83cc-4d3f9e837e2b" />

[6e07d1d](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/pull/366/commits/6e07d1d5635ca9edc47a306c20012be8299dfc16)

Reviewer: 1. as you wrote me offline, this step has at least 1 extra step (maybe more), including an "authorization" step, so something in step 3 should also mention at least that authorization process - eg. using the word "authorize" somehow or even mentioning the button "Authorize Deno Deploy"
2. keep in mind that your words for step 3 should also mention the previous step (shown in your screenshot)
3. carefully go through this flow from the beginning (do this by revoking access to Deno Deploy from your account first), and check if there is a step that asks for access to specific repositories. if there is, then make sure that there is text to not select all repositories, but only the `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` repo

Author: Removed Deno from my account and created new screenshots. Added a new step for authorising Deno. I think the guide is clear now that students only need to allow access to the express guest list api repo.
[8bd9173](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/pull/366/commits/8bd91734aca50e13b66d6bd0fca87e59a4bc1ca7)

> 3. On [Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project) - select your GitHub account in the dropdown and click on "Select" next to the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On [Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project), select your GitHub account in the dropdown and click on "Select" next to the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`
```

4. Scroll down to the "Entrypoint" field, select `index.ts` and click "Deploy Project"

> 5. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click on "Go to Project" to see the project overview with the deployed URL (ends with `deno.dev`)

Author: added to pick the first URL

[8bd9173](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/pull/366/commits/8bd91734aca50e13b66d6bd0fca87e59a4bc1ca7)

> 5. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click on "Go to Project" to see the project overview with the deployed URL (ends with `deno.dev`)

Author: from Slack after this change: 
> check it against the previous version that was there - that was simple
do we do multiple sentences in each point?
seems like too much and very overloaded for one point

The previous version: 
```
5. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click on "Go to Project" to see the project overview with the deployed URL (ends with `deno.dev`)
```

After making some changes, I split the instructions to clarify the steps 
```
6. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click "Go to Project" to open the project overview
7. Under "Production Deployment" of the project overview, use the first URL as your deployed URL (ends with `.deno.dev`)
```
[c083c62](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/pull/366/commits/c083c62718e70011599bc7c6adf4a5e29aee4125)

> 5. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click on "Go to Project" to see the project overview with the deployed URL (ends with `deno.dev`)

Author: Changed step 7 to an own paragraph. Conversation in a different thread
https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/pull/366#discussion_r1999045085

> 5. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click on "Go to Project" to see the project overview with the deployed URL (ends with `deno.dev`)

Reviewer: switched to 2nd URL, because it's the URL which is not linked to a specific commit hash

-->

## Deploy on Deno Deploy

> 1. Fork the [Express Guest List API Memory Data Store repository](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/fork) - choose your GitHub account and click "Fork"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On [the fork page for `upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/fork), select your GitHub account and click "Fork"
```

> 1. On [the fork page for `upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/fork), select your GitHub account and click "Fork"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On [the fork page for `upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/fork), select your GitHub account and click "Fork" to create a copy of the GitHub repository in your account
```

> 2. [Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project) on Deno Deploy - click on "Continue with GitHub" to sign in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On [Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project), click on "Continue with GitHub" to sign in to Deno Deploy
```

> 1. On [the fork page for `upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/fork), select your GitHub account and click "Fork" to create a copy of the GitHub repository in your account

Reviewer: can Deno Deploy also deploy public repos not owned by the account? then we could drop this step

Author: ​To [deploy a project on Deno Deploy](https://docs.deno.com/deploy/manual/how-to-deploy/), you must authorize your GitHub account. Importing with a GitHub URL alone is not supported.

> 3. On the "Create a New Project" page, select your GitHub user and the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the "Create a New Project" page, select your GitHub account in the dropdown and click on "Select" next to the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`
```

> 4. Scroll down to the "Entrypoint" field, select `index.ts`, and click "Deploy Project"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Scroll down to the "Entrypoint" field, select `index.ts` and click "Deploy Project"
```

> The API can be accessed at the URL in the project overview (URL ends with `deno.dev`).

Reviewer: it appears in your screenshots that the URL appears in 2 places - the "Success!" page and the "project overview" page.

1. choose only 1 location that students should find it on (currently, you have already chosen the "project overview" page, which is ok if that's the best place for it)
2. neither of these places have been mentioned or referred to in the steps above - we should probably have an extra step 5 to mention how to get to whatever location you choose

-->

## Deploy on Deno Deploy

1. On [the fork page for `upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/fork), select your GitHub account and click "Fork" to create a copy of the GitHub repository in your account

> 2. Sign in to [Deno Deploy](https://dash.deno.com/signin) with your GitHub account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Authorize Deno Deploy to access your GitHub account on [Deno Deploy - Sign in](https://dash.deno.com/signin) and accept the terms and conditions
```

> 2. On [Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project), click on "Continue with GitHub", authorize Deno Deploy to access your GitHub account and accept the terms and conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On [Deno Deploy - Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project), click on "Continue with GitHub", authorize Deno Deploy to access your GitHub account and accept the terms and conditions
```

> 3. If your account doesn't appear in the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account", and then on the authorization page on GitHub, select your GitHub account, "Only select repositories" and the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return to the new project page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If your account doesn't appear in the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account", and then on the authorization page on GitHub, select your GitHub account, choose "Only select repositories" and select the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return you to the new project page
```

> 3. If your account doesn't appear in the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account" to open an authorization page on GitHub, and then on that page select your GitHub account, select "Only select repositories" and select the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return to the new project page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If your account doesn't appear in the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account", and then on the authorization page on GitHub, select your GitHub account, "Only select repositories" and the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return to the new project page
```

> 2. Authorize Deno Deploy to access your GitHub account on [Deno Deploy - Sign in](https://dash.deno.com/signin) and accept the terms and conditions
> 3. Authorize Deno Deploy to access your GitHub account, select "only select repositories" and pick `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the list
> 4. On [Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project), select your GitHub account in the dropdown and click on "Select" next to the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`
> 5. Scroll down to the "Entrypoint" field, select `index.ts` and click "Deploy Project"
> 6. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click "Go to Project" to open the project overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On [Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project), click on "Continue with GitHub", authorize Deno Deploy to access your GitHub account and accept the terms and conditions
3. In the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account", which will open an authorization page on GitHub
4. Select your GitHub account, select "Only select repositories" and select the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return you to the new project page
5. Select your GitHub account in the dropdown and click on "Select" next to the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`
6. In the "Entrypoint" field near the bottom of the page, select `index.ts` and click "Deploy Project"
7. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click "Go to Project" to open the project overview
```

> 6. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click "Go to Project" to open the project overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click "Go to Project" to open the project overview page
```

> The API URL is on the project overview page under "Production Deployment" - the second (shorter) URL which ends with `.deno.dev`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API URL is on the project overview page under "Production Deployment" - it's the second (shorter) URL which ends with `.deno.dev`
```

> The API can be accessed at the second URL under "Production Deployment" in the project overview (the shorter URL which ends with `.deno.dev`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API can be accessed on the project overview page at the second URL under "Production Deployment" (the shorter URL which ends with `.deno.dev`).
```

-->

## Deploy on Deno Deploy

> 1. On [the fork page for `upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`](https://github.com/upleveled/express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store/fork), select your GitHub account and click "Fork" to create a copy of the GitHub repository in your account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click "Fork" at the top right of the `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` GitHub repository page, select your GitHub account and click "Fork" to create a copy of the GitHub repository in your account
```

2. On [Create a New Project](https://dash.deno.com/new_project), click on "Continue with GitHub", authorize Deno Deploy to access your GitHub account and accept the terms and conditions

> 3. In the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account", which will open an authorization page on GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account" if you do not already see your account - this will open an authorization page on GitHub
```

> 4. Select your GitHub account, select "Only select repositories" and select the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return you to the new project page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select your GitHub account, select "Only select repositories" and select the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return to the new project page
```

5. Select your GitHub account in the dropdown and click on "Select" next to the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`

> 6. In the "Entrypoint" field near the bottom of the page, select `index.ts` and click "Deploy Project"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the "Entrypoint" dropdown near the bottom of the page, select `index.ts` and click "Deploy Project"
```

> 3. In the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account" if you do not already see your account - this will open an authorization page on GitHub
> 4. Select your GitHub account, select "Only select repositories" and select the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return to the new project page
> 5. Select your GitHub account in the dropdown and click on "Select" next to the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`
> 6. In the "Entrypoint" dropdown near the bottom of the page, select `index.ts` and click "Deploy Project"
> 7. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click "Go to Project" to open the project overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If your account doesn't appear in the "Select User or Organization" dropdown, select "Add GitHub Account" to open an authorization page on GitHub, and then on that page select your GitHub account, select "Only select repositories" and select the repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store` from the dropdown, which will return to the new project page
4. Select your GitHub account in the dropdown and click on "Select" next to the forked repository `express-guest-list-api-memory-data-store`
5. In the "Entrypoint" dropdown near the bottom of the page, select `index.ts` and click "Deploy Project"
6. After successful deployment, a "Success" page will appear - click "Go to Project" to open the project overview
```

> The API can be accessed at the first URL under "Production Deployment" in the project overview (ends with `.deno.dev`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API can be accessed at the second URL under "Production Deployment" in the project overview (ends with `.deno.dev`).
```

> The API can be accessed at the second URL under "Production Deployment" in the project overview (ends with `.deno.dev`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API can be accessed at the second URL under "Production Deployment" in the project overview (the shorter URL which ends with `.deno.dev`).
```
